feat(utils): add local cache (#412)
Refinitiv/refinitiv-ui: documents/src/pages/utils/cache.md

<!-- 
title: Local caching Utility
location: ./utils/cache
type: page
layout: default
-->

::status-complete::

# Local cache

> The utility provides provides an alternative way to store data on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The utility provides an alternative way to store data locally in browser.
```

Author: Updated by following your suggestion.

Reviewer: I think storing in browser sounds better than machine.

There are 2 main classes that collaborate: wrapper and storage. LocalCache is high level class that wraps the selected storage to be asynchronous api.

> The second is storage class. Store data on the user's machine. The storages has a list of support as below:

Reviewer: Does developer needs to be aware that there is storage class ? I don't see any code related to the class here. I think we only need to mention what is LocalCache class, how to instantiate it and its storage options.

Reviewer 2: Storage classes should now be internal, so they don't need to be documented.

Author: Updated by replacing Storage classes content to more detail on localcahe class.

> The second is storage class. Store data on the user's machine. The storages has a list of support as below:

Reviewer: Again here, storage classes don't need to be mentioned in the docs.

> - localstorage

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- localstorage
```

Author: Updated by following your suggestion.

> - indexeddb

Reviewer: We should mention suitable use cases for each storage option.

Author: Updated. I put more info of each storages.

LocalCache can select only one storage to use. Here is a common use.

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
// Create cache and use the storage
const cache = new LocalCache(
  // prefix key for localstorage or database name for indexeddb

>   'my-cache',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  'cache-prefix',
```

or something better.

Reviewer 2: Should actually document this as just the `name` of the cache. A user shouldn't have to worry about any prefixes.

Reviewer: You are right. I got confused.

Author: Updated by changing comment to name of the cache.

  { storage: 'indexeddb' } // config with storage type
);
// Example using an api
await cache.set(key, data);
const item = await cache.get(key);
```

## LocalCache APIs

> ### set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### set

```

Author: Updated by following your suggestion.

Caches a value against a key to use until expired

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
const key = 'my-item-01';
const value = { label: '01', value: 1};
// Create cache and use the storage
const cache = new LocalCache('my-cache', { storage: 'indexeddb' });

> // store 'my-item-01': { label: '01', value: 1} to LocalCache. Default cache expiry is 5 days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// store 'my-item-01': { label: '01', value: 1} to `indexeddb` ?
```

Author: Updated by following your suggestion.

await cache.set(key, value);
```

#### Syntax

```text
cache.set(key, value, expires);
```

#### Arguments

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| key | String | Cache key |
| value | unknown | Data to store in cache |

> | expires | Number | Cache expiry in seconds. Defaults to 5 days. |

Reviewer: I think there are less verbose ways to document cache APIs. I personally find something like TS declaration much easier to understand. 

```ts
export declare class LocalCache {
    /**
     * Storage to store data
     */
    protected storage: CacheStorage;
    constructor(name: string, config: LocalCacheConfig);
    /**
     * Caches a value against a key to use until expired
     * @param key Cache key
     * @param value Data to store in cache
     * @param [expires=432000] Cache expiry in seconds. Defaults to 5 days.
     * @returns Promise void
     */
    set(key: string, value: string, expires?: number): Promise<void>;
    /**
     * Returns cache data value based on provided key
     * @param key Cache key
     * @returns Promise string data or `null` if nothing is cached
     */
    get(key: string): Promise<unknown | null>;
    /**
     * Remove cache data value based on provided key
     * @param key Cache key
     * @returns Promise void
     */
    remove(key: string): Promise<void>;
    /**
     * Clear all memory cache
     * @returns Promise void
     */
    clear(): Promise<void>;
}
```

Reviewer 2: I think this is just aligning with Aleks' docs. We probably need to revisit how we document these APIs as a whole.

### get
Returns cache data value based on provided key

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
const key = 'my-item-01';
// Create cache and use the storage
const cache = new LocalCache('my-cache', { storage: 'indexeddb' });

// get specific item follow by the key 'my-item-01', or got null if the key isn't cached
await cache.get(key); // => { label: '01', value: 1}
```

#### Syntax

```text
cache.get(key);
```

#### Arguments

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| key | String | Cache key |

#### Returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| String \| null | string data or `null` if the key isn't cached |

### remove
Remove cache data value based on provided key

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
const key = 'my-item-01';
// Create cache and use the storage
const cache = new LocalCache('my-cache', { storage: 'indexeddb' });

// remove specific item follow by the key 'my-item-01'
await cache.remove(key);
```

#### Syntax

```text
cache.remove(key);
```

#### Arguments

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| key | String | Cache key |

### clear

> Remove related items in the storage

Reviewer: What are related items ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clears all items from cache
```

Author: Updated by following your suggestion.

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
// Create cache and use the storage
const cache = new LocalCache('my-cache', { storage: 'indexeddb' });

> // remove specific item follow by the key 'my-item-01'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated by changing comment to remove all items in the cache.

The second is storage class which has a list of support as below:
- localstorage
- indexeddb

LocalCache can select only one storage to use. Here is a common use.

```typescript
import { CacheIndexedDBStorage, CacheLocalStorage, LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
// Create storage
const localStorage = new CacheLocalStorage('my-cache-');
const dbStorage = new CacheIndexedDBStorage({ dbName: 'my-database', version: 1, storeName: 'my-store' });
// Create cache and use the storage
const cache = new LocalCache(dbStorage);
// Example using an api
await cache.set(key, data);
const item = await cache.get(key);
```

## LocalCache APIs

### set
Caches a value against a key to use until expired

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
const key = 'my-item-01';
const value = { label: '01', value: 1};
const cache = new LocalCache();

// store 'my-item-01': { label: '01', value: 1} to LocalCache. Default cache expiry is 5 days
await cache.set(key, value);
```

#### Syntax

```text
cache.set(key, value, expires);
```

#### Arguments

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| key | String | Cache key |

> | value | unknown | Data to store in cache |

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure an unknown type is correct. Should it be Any or something else?

Author: It should be unknown type. Because we don't know what item will be store.

| expires | Number | Cache expiry in seconds. Defaults to 5 days. |

#### Returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | String | The new value with the months added |

Reviewer 3: I think the description is incorrect.

Author: This is void. It isn't return anything. I will remove it.

### get
Returns cache data value based on provided key

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
const key = 'my-item-01';
const cache = new LocalCache();

// get specific item follow by the key 'my-item-01', or got null if the key isn't cached
await cache.get(key); // => { label: '01', value: 1}
```

#### Syntax

```text
cache.get(key);
```

#### Arguments

| Name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| key | String | Cache key |

#### Returns

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| String \| null | string data or `null` if the key isn't cached |

### remove
Remove cache data value based on provided key

```typescript
import { LocalCache } from '@refinitiv-ui/utils/cache.js';
const key = 'my-item-01';

> const cache = new LocalCache();

Reviewer 4: There are many code example that creates `LocalCache` without storage, I think it might be misleading when users read the code.

Author: Updated.
